1. Dogs have a sense of time. It's been proven that they know the difference between one hour and five. If conditioned to, they can predict future events, such as regular walk times.



 

2. Your dog is as smart as a two-year old! Ever wonder why children around this age seem to have a special bond with the family dog? It could be because they speak the same language, roughly 250 words and gestures in fact.

 

3. A study at UCSD claims that your dog can genuinely get jealous when they see you display affection for another creature.

 

4. Dachshunds were originally bred to fight badgers.



 

5. Stray dogs in Russia have learned how to ride the complex subway system, and get off at specific stops in search of food.

 

6. Your dog can smell your feelings. In fact, your dog's sense of smell is approximately 100,000 times better than yours. So it shouldn't be shocking that they can in fact, smell things such as fear. When a human is fearful, they perspire, and a dog is easily able to pick up on this change.

 

7. Newfoundlands make great lifeguards because they have water-resistant coats and webbed feet.



 

8. Dalmatian puppies are born completely white, they develop their spots as they get older. 

 

9. Petting a dog can actually benefit your physical and mental health. Studies have shown that petting a dog for 15 minutes can lower blood pressure by 10%, can help lower feelings of stress, depression, and combat loneliness.



 

10. Dogs have wet noses because it helps to absorb scent chemicals.

 

11. Bluey, an Australian cattle dog, is recorded in the Guinness Book of World Records as the oldest dog to ever live. Bluey lived to be 29 years 5 months old and lived from 1910 to 1939.



 

12.  Dogs can be trained to to detect cancer and other diseases in humans. Cancerous cells release different metabolic waste products than healthy cells in the human body. Dogs may even be able to sniff out cancer cells simply through smelling someone's breath.

 

13. Three dogs survived the historical sinking of the Titanic in 1912. Two Pomeranians and 1 Pekingese - all from First Class cabins.



 

14. The town of Idyllwild, California elected their first mayor in 2012, Mayor Max. But Max isn't just any regular mayor, he's a Golden Retriever! Although Mayor Max passed away in 2013, the town elected Mayor Max II into office and he's been governing Idyllwild ever since. Way to go, Mayor Max!



 

15. Do you have a dog that experiences separation anxiety? Try leaving some clothing with him that you've worn. It's been proven that the scent you leave behind on your clothes can help ease your dog's separation anxiety.

 

16. When your dog is carefully choosing the perfect place to do his business, it is because they prefer to go poop in alignment with the Earth's magnetic field.



 

17. All puppies are born deaf. As they get older, they can hear 4 times better than humans can.

 

18. Dogs don't sweat, instead they pant to cool themselves.



 

19. A vast majority of strays that end up in shelters are pets who are lost simply because they don't have any identification. Additionally, Fourth of July is the busiest time for animal shelters as most pets get lost during that holiday due to being scared of loud fireworks and running away.

 

20. Chocolate can be very deadly to dogs due to containing the ingredient, theobromine. Dogs cannot metabolize theobromine and ingesting chocolate could cause a severely toxic buildup in their system which could become fatal.



 

21. Maltese dogs do not shed, making them perfect pups for people with allergies.

 

22. 45% of dogs sleep in their owner's beds. Hopefully those pups share the blanket...


23. A dog's nose print is unique, much like a human's fingerprints.